
---
layout: post
title: Distributed factored gradient descent for QST is accepted at L-CSS/CDC
date: 2022-06-26 12:00:00 UTC
disqus_comments: false
photo_url: "/public/cancun.jpeg"
---

With a collaboration with Prof. Cesar Uribe, and his student, Mohammad Taha Toghani, our joint effort on distributed local factored gradient descent for quantum state tomography has been accepted at the IEEE Control Systems Letters (L-CSS) and will be presented at the 61st IEEE Conference on Decision and Control - Dec. 6-9, 2022, in Cancún, Mexico.


- [*Local Stochastic Factored Gradient Descent for Distributed Quantum State Tomography*]([https://proceedings.mlr.press/v168/wolfe22a/wolfe22a.pdf](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2203.11579.pdf))

>**Abstract.** 
>We propose a distributed Quantum State Tomography (QST) protocol, named Local Stochastic Factored Gradient Descent (Local SFGD), to learn the low-rank factor of a density matrix over a set of local machines. QST is the canonical procedure to characterize the state of a quantum system, which we formulate as a stochastic nonconvex smooth optimization problem. Physically, the estimation of a low-rank density matrix helps characterizing the amount of noise introduced by quantum computation. Theoretically, we prove the local convergence of Local SFGD for a general class of restricted strongly convex/smooth loss functions, i.e., Local SFGD converges locally to a small neighborhood of the global optimum at a linear rate with a constant step size, while it locally converges exactly at a sub-linear rate with diminishing step sizes. With a proper initialization, local convergence results imply global convergence. We validate our theoretical findings with numerical simulations of QST on the Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ) state.
