---
layout: post
title: Two papers accepted at L4DC 2022
date: 2022-02-12 12:00:00 UTC
disqus_comments: false
photo_url: "/public/stanford.jpeg"
---

Two of our papers are accepted at the 4th Annual Learning for Dynamics & Control Conference (L4DC 2022)

- [*i-SpaSP: Structured Neural Pruning via Sparse Signal Recover*](https://proceedings.mlr.press/v168/wolfe22a/wolfe22a.pdf)

>**Abstract.** 
>We propose a novel, structured pruning algorithm for neural networks—the iterative, Sparse Structured Pruning algorithm, dubbed as i-SpaSP. Inspired by ideas from sparse signal recovery, i-SpaSP operates by iteratively identifying a larger set of important parameter groups (e.g., filters or neurons) within a network that contribute most to the residual between pruned and dense network output, then thresholding these groups based on a smaller, pre-defined pruning ratio. For both two-layer and multi-layer network architectures with ReLU activations, we show the error induced by pruning with i-SpaSP decays polynomially, where the degree of this polynomial becomes arbitrarily large based on the sparsity of the dense network’s hidden representations. In our experiments, i-SpaSP is evaluated across a variety of datasets (i.e., MNIST, ImageNet, and XNLI) and architectures (i.e., feed forward networks, ResNet34, MobileNetV2, and BERT), where it is shown to discover high-performing sub-networks and improve upon the pruning efficiency of provable baseline methodologies by several orders of magnitude. Put simply, i-SpaSP is easy to implement with automatic differentiation, achieves strong empirical results, comes with theoretical convergence guarantees, and is efficient, thus distinguishing itself as one of the few computationally efficient, practical, and provable pruning algorithms.


- [*Convergence and Stability of the Stochastic Proximal Point Algorithm with Momentum*](https://proceedings.mlr.press/v168/kim22a/kim22a.pdf)

>**Abstract.** 
>Stochastic gradient descent with momentum (SGDM) is the dominant algorithm in many optimization scenarios, including convex optimization instances and non-convex neural network training. Yet, in the stochastic setting, momentum interferes with gradient noise, often leading to specific step size and momentum choices in order to guarantee convergence, set aside acceleration. Proximal point methods, on the other hand, have gained much attention due to their numerical stability and elasticity against imperfect tuning. Their stochastic accelerated variants though have received limited attention: how momentum interacts with the stability of (stochastic) proximal point methods remains largely unstudied. To address this, we focus on the convergence and stability of the stochastic proximal point algorithm with momentum (SPPAM), and show that SPPAM allows a faster linear convergence to a neighborhood compared to stochastic proximal point algorithm (SPPA) with a better contraction factor, under proper hyperparameter tuning. In terms of stability, we show that SPPAM depends on problem constants more favorably than SGDM, allowing a wider range of step size and momentum that lead to convergence.
